These files are a compliation of computer fractal generation using methods such as Newton's method, Steffensen's method, and a derived cubic zoom method. There are also Python counterparts to the Julia code as Dr. Olson and I switched programming languages throughout this project.

A further detailed explanation of our thought process throughout our research and how we started with fractal generation using Newton's method in Python to creating a zoom video onto fractals generated using a cubic method in Julia.

Fractals can be created through many different methods, the simplest and most explored one being Newton’s Method. Along with the method a polynomial should be provided, in our case we chose x^5 – x + 1. At the start of the project I only knew how to code in Python and as such we decided to use it. To start we needed to create an “xtorgb” function which could take any value ideally ranging from -3 to 3 and convert it into an RGB value consisting of a red, green, and blue value from 0 to 256. After that was complete we decided to start of basic and simply create a color wheel using our “xtorgb” function along with a “plane” function that essentially generated takes a matrix or “plane” and applies the “xtorgb” function applied to each point. From there we defined our polynomial and newton method functions and initialized a matrix of the complex plane as to use as our plane. From there we iterated the newton’s method on the plane of a certain specified image size for a certain specified amount of iterations. With each iteration we saved the plane as a png image in which we could view the fractals. Once we successfully created that program we decided to see if a similar method, Steffensen’s method, one which doesn’t use derivatives, would be able to create fractals as well. Unfortunately a direct approach to Steffensen’s method resulted in a purely black image and so with a bit of math using a program called Maple we were able to adapt the Steffensen’s method function to work for our polynomial. The fractals created by the program were quite different, with a lot more black, than Newton’s method but arguable more pleasing to the eye. Over the next semester I took Math 466 Numerical Methods taught by my mentor and I learned how to program in a language called Julia. Julia is quite similar to Python but has a “just in-time compilation” system which we thought would work faster than Python. Speed was key to us as we wanted to create a Movie zooming into the fractals we created meaning we would need create many images. After I rewrote our code in Julia I was successfully able to create fractals with the two methods we had used previously. However, we decided to try a cubic method as well which essentially adds on to Netwon’s method. The code produced a similar looking, in terms of colors and size of basins of attraction, fractals to the Newton’s method except with a more cyclical nature. 
My mentor proposed the conjecture that for our fractals if we were to draw a rectangle anywhere on our created fractals for Newton’s and the Cubic method and if the colors on the perimeter of the rectangle were all the same then all the points inside the rectangle would be that same color. We plan to prove that this works for the Cubic method by changing a proof we think someone has made for this conjecture on Newton’s Method.
Additionally we noticed that during our iterations for Newton’s method there were spots along the fractal which didn’t have fixed colors. In our case we have spots which would cycle between the colors light magenta, dark magenta, and white. However, this same nature did not happen with the Cubic method so we wondered if there was a polynomial out there that would create a cycling of colors for the Cubic Method.
Lastly we plan to use a spline function to allow for a nice zoom into our fractal with images generated at each frame. Then using ffmpeg we could combine these images into a movie. However with a highly intensive program we will likely use the UNR Math and Statistic Department’s server to allow the program to run faster. 
